README.md, before:

# GpJSON - Leveraging Structural Indexes for High-Performance JSON Data Processing on GPUs
This Truffle language exposes JSONPath query execution to the polyglot [GraalVM](http://www.graalvm.org).

The goals are:
 1. Present a couple of parsing techniques based on structural indexes to quickly execute queries on JSON files
 2. Introduce a batching approach to improve performance and allow the processing of datasets bigger than the GPU’s memory
 3. Implement the above concepts into a Truffle Language to provide an engine that can be used from any host language that can run on the GraalVM.
 
## Using GpJSON in the GraalVM
1. GpJSON requires GrCUDA to use the GPU. Install the custom GrCUDA version from necst: [https://github.com/necst/grcuda](https://github.com/necst/grcuda).
2. GrCUDA require GraalVM 21.3. Download from [https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases](https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases).
3. Checkout to commit `GRCUDA-133-gpjson-2.0` in GrCUDA and install it.
4. Now switch to GraalVM 22.1. You can use SDKman to change GraalVM versions quickly.
5. Compile GpJSON with GraalVM 22.1. Use the `mvn package` command.
6. Copy both GrCUDA and GpJSON jars to the GraalVM22.1 languages folder.
7. Use GraalVM 22.1 for experiments with GpJSON.


To compile a JAR file containing GpJSON move to the language folder and run ```mvn package```.

Next, copy the JAR file from ```target/gpjson.jar``` into `jre/languages/gpjson` (Java 8) or `languages/gpjson` (Java 11) of the Graal installation. 

Note that `--jvm` and `--polyglot` must be specified in both cases as well.

In the examples folder, you can find a couple of files containing examples of the GpJSON's syntax.

## Benchmarks suite

To run the benchmarks provided in the [`benchmarks`](./benchmarks/) folder you first need to install the following dependencies:

- [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads)
- [GraalVM Community Edition](https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases)
- [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en)

Then, add the following variables to your `.bashrc` (or equivalent):

```
export CUDA_DIR=[your-cuda-path]
export PATH=$PATH:$CUDA_DIR/bin
export GRAAL_DIR=[your-graalvm-path]
export PATH=$PATH:$GRAAL_DIR/bin
export NODE_DIR=[your-node-path]
```

Copy the `grcuda` and `gpjson` JARs from the [`deliverables`](./deliverables/) folder to `[your-graalvm-path]/languages/[grcuda/gpjson]/`.

Move to the benchmarks folder `cd benchmarks` and run `make setup` to install jsonpath, jsonpath-plus and simdjson.

Finally, run `./[name-of-the-benchmark].sh`. Results will be saved to `[name-of-the-benchmark].csv`.

The following options can be added to the command above:

- `-g` to exclude the GPU-based benchmarks (GpJSON only). Default is `false`
- `-w [number]` to set the number of warmup runs. Default is `5`
- `-r [number]` to set the number of runs. Default is `10`
- `-t [number]` to set the number of threads (Java JSONPath only). Default is `11`
- `-d [path]` to set the path of the dataset. Default value is `/home/ubuntu/datasets-ext/`

Datasets can be downloaded [here](https://polimi365-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/10604455_polimi_it/ElAPYQNeE1BLtcyR_BbFGS0BcaFPp2NiF1kGM1MtjFjmLA).

For further details, such as the versions of the dependencies used or the queries executed by the benchmarks suite, please refer to the official thesis and/or publication.

Commit message:

Add rapids vs cudf and improve readme

README.md, after:

# GpJSON - Leveraging Structural Indexes for High-Performance JSON Data Processing on GPUs
This Truffle language exposes JSONPath query execution to the polyglot [GraalVM](http://www.graalvm.org).

The goals are:
 1. Present a couple of parsing techniques based on structural indexes to quickly execute queries on JSON files
 2. Introduce a batching approach to improve performance and allow the processing of datasets bigger than the GPU’s memory
 3. Implement the above concepts into a Truffle Language to provide an engine that can be used from any host language that can run on the GraalVM.
 
## Using GpJSON in the GraalVM
1. GpJSON requires GrCUDA to use the GPU. Install the custom GrCUDA version from necst: [https://github.com/necst/grcuda](https://github.com/necst/grcuda).
2. GrCUDA require GraalVM 21.3. Download from [https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases](https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases).
3. Checkout to commit `GRCUDA-133-gpjson-2.0` in GrCUDA and install it.
4. Now switch to GraalVM 22.1. You can use SDKman to change GraalVM versions quickly.
5. Compile GpJSON with GraalVM 22.1. Use the `mvn package` command.
6. Copy both GrCUDA and GpJSON jars to the GraalVM22.1 languages folder.
7. Use GraalVM 22.1 for experiments with GpJSON.


To compile a JAR file containing GpJSON move to the language folder and run ```mvn package```.

Next, copy the JAR file from ```target/gpjson.jar``` into `jre/languages/gpjson` (Java 8) or `languages/gpjson` (Java 11) of the Graal installation. 

Note that `--jvm` and `--polyglot` must be specified in both cases as well.

In the examples folder, you can find a couple of files containing examples of the GpJSON's syntax.

## Benchmarks suite

To run the benchmarks provided in the [`benchmarks`](./benchmarks/) folder you first need to install the following dependencies:

- [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads)
- [GraalVM Community Edition](https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases)
- [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en)

Then, add the following variables to your `.bashrc` (or equivalent):

```
export CUDA_DIR=[your-cuda-path]
export PATH=$PATH:$CUDA_DIR/bin
export GRAAL_DIR=[your-graalvm-path]
export PATH=$PATH:$GRAAL_DIR/bin
export NODE_DIR=[your-node-path]
```

Copy the `grcuda` and `gpjson` JARs from the [`deliverables`](./deliverables/) folder to `[your-graalvm-path]/languages/[grcuda/gpjson]/`.

Move to the benchmarks folder `cd benchmarks` and run `make setup` to install jsonpath, jsonpath-plus and simdjson.

Finally, run `./[name-of-the-benchmark].sh`. Results will be saved to `[name-of-the-benchmark].csv`.

The following options can be added to the command above:

- `-g` to exclude the GPU-based benchmarks (GpJSON only). Default is `false`
- `-w [number]` to set the number of warmup runs. Default is `5`
- `-r [number]` to set the number of runs. Default is `10`
- `-t [number]` to set the number of threads (Java JSONPath only). Default is `11`
- `-d [path]` to set the path of the dataset. Default value is `/home/ubuntu/datasets-ext/`

Datasets can be downloaded [here](https://polimi365-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/10604455_polimi_it/ElAPYQNeE1BLtcyR_BbFGS0BcaFPp2NiF1kGM1MtjFjmLA).

## Plotting results

The plotting notebooks use Python and Jupyter Lab. Create a conda environment and install the dependencies.
```
conda create -n rapids-24.10 -c rapidsai -c conda-forge -c nvidia  \
    cudf=24.10 python=3.11 'cuda-version>=12.0,<=12.5'
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The `paper plots.ipynb` notebook generates the plots in the paper. The `rapids_vs_gpjson/rapids plots.ipynb` notebook generates the plots for the RAPIDS vs GpJSON section of the paper.

For further details, such as the versions of the dependencies used or the queries executed by the benchmarks suite, please refer to the official thesis and/or publication.
